Progressive Override - Documentation Improvements & Product Update (#7190)
kamilkisiela/graphql-hive: packages/web/docs/src/app/product-updates/(posts)/2025-10-29-progressive-override/page.mdx

---

> title: Progressive Override

Author: Updated the title! Let me know if this looks better.

description:
  Safer and controlled migrations with Progressive Override that allows gradual schema changes.
date: 2025-10-29
authors: [arda]
---

import { Tabs } from '@theguild/components'

In this update, we are excited to introduce Progressive Override in Hive Gateway and Hive Router,
enabling safer and more controlled schema migrations for your GraphQL services.

> As your GraphQL API evolves, you usually need to move fields around subgraphs while the final

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As your supergraph evolves, you usually need to move fields around subgraphs while the final
```

supergraph remains the same. Progressive Override allows you to make these changes gradually by
controlling the traffic of the affected fields.

### `@override` directive with traffic percentage

With Progressive Override, you can now use the `@override` directive along with a `label` argument
and `percent(x)` value to specify the percentage of traffic that should be routed to the new
implementation of a field.

First you need to import `@override` directive in your subgraph schema:

```graphql
extend schema @link(url: "https://specs.apollo.dev/federation/v2.7", import: ["@key", "@override"])
```

Then, you can apply it to your new Billing subgraph like this:

```diff
type Bill @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
+ amount: Int! @override(from: "Payments")
}
```

Now this directive tells your gateway to use this subgraph to resolve the `amount` field instead of
`Payments` subgraph.

But with Progressive Override, you can control the traffic percentage like this:

```diff
type Bill @key(fields: "id") {
  id: ID!
+ amount: Int! @override(from: "Payments", label: "percent(20)")
}
```

This configuration will route 20% of the traffic for the `amount` field to the new Billing subgraph,

> while the remaining 80% will still be served by the Payments subgraph. This allows you to monitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while the remaining 80% will still be routed by the `Payments` subgraph. This allows you to monitor
```
